docs/nipyapi-docs/nipyapi.demo.rst, before:

Console
-------

Importing this module will run a script which populates the NiFi canvas with a
Process Group containing a processor, and creates a sequence of Versioned
Flow Objects from it, along with a Template and various export versions.

This is intended to give the user a base set of objects to explore the API.

Usage::

    from nipyapi.demo.console import *

Secured Connection
------------------

Importing this module will pull recent Docker containers from Dockerhub, deploy
them in a secured configuration, and prepare the environment for access via
TLS in NiFi-Registry's case, and public LDAP username/password for NiFi.

This is intended to give the user an example of a secured environment.
May be combined with the Console to produce a secured environment with demo
objects.

Usage::

    from nipyapi.demo.secured_connection import *


bbende How Do I Deploy My Flow
------------------------------

An incomplete version of BBende's excellent demo.
It currently deploys some Docker NiFi and Registry instances.

Commit message:

Updated demo documentation Updated devnotes to match new Docker usage Updated History for 0.9.1

docs/nipyapi-docs/nipyapi.demo.rst, after:

FDLC
----

Importing this module provides further instructions for it's use.
It will guide you through the steps involved in flow promotion.

Note that it makes extensive use of Docker Containers.

Usage::

    from nipyapi.demo.fdlc import *

Console
-------

Importing this module will run a script which populates the NiFi canvas with a
Process Group containing a processor, and creates a sequence of Versioned
Flow Objects from it, along with a Template and various export versions.

This is intended to give the user a base set of objects to explore the API.

Usage::

    from nipyapi.demo.console import *

Secured Connection
------------------

Importing this module will pull recent Docker containers from Dockerhub, deploy
them in a secured configuration, and prepare the environment for access via
TLS in NiFi-Registry's case, and public LDAP username/password for NiFi.

This is intended to give the user an example of a secured environment.
May be combined with the Console to produce a secured environment with demo
objects.

Note that this demo makes extensive use of Docker Containers.

Usage::

    from nipyapi.demo.secured_connection import *


bbende How Do I Deploy My Flow
------------------------------

An incomplete version of BBende's excellent demo.
It currently deploys some Docker NiFi and Registry instances.
